DONE
person moving around (30m) - 50m
nape integration (1h) - 55m
bumpers as sprites (1h) - 1h21m
firing cue balls (1h) - 2h08m
tiled map (1h) - 2h50m (lotta distractions)
pockets (30m) - 1h52m (less distractions [though still some], just hard)
player dying/respawning (1h) - 3h41m (figuring out cueball collision with player) + 1h14m (acutally implementing dying; cut respawning)
enemy balls (30m) - 1h17m

estimated: 2h30m
done: 16h08m (6h30m est)

bumpers shifting (30m)
stage offset
replace wood texture
animation for bumpers (1h)
animation for pockets (1h)
fire line
hit effect
menu?
charging effect
fix ghosting issue
fix cueball on top of player
fix flash performance issues
fix html5

cut:
oblique projection? (2h)










play:
http://ludumdare.com/compo/2014/12/07/beware-of-the-screen-scrollers/comment-page-1/#comment-579252




I voted against this theme because it's a technical constraint. I like themes that *imply* a set of mechanics or techincal details (like "10 Seconds" or "You Only Get One"), but I will vote against any that explicitly prescribe a specific mechanic. This is not necessarily because I personally dislike them- it's because they can effectively bar people from making certain genres of games (in this case, examples include first-person 3D games and interactive fiction). That alone wouldn't be such a bad thing, were it not for the fact that participants are actively encouraged to prepare by getting familiar with their tools (with good reason!). Anyone who spent the last few weeks learning the Oculus SDK, Inform 7, RenPy, or even - to an extent - Unity3D or Unreal Engine have had much of their preparation rendered useless by this theme, or are forced to find an iffy interpretation of the theme.

That said, it won for a reason, and for a lot of people, this exactly the kind of theme they were hoping to see from Ludum Dare. It seems there's a few different schools of thought forming around what makes a good theme, each one believing that something is a good theme for *the same reason* that another school thinks it's a bad theme. I think the inevitable negativity that ensues is an important problem to solve for future LDs- after all, 40% of participants voted *against* this theme, and that is way too many people to go into this jam with bad feelings.

Many people have suggested to have two themes, so people who don't like one can do the other. I like that idea, and I have an addition to that suggestion: Let's decide the second theme by taking whichever theme received the most votes from participants who voted -1 on the winning theme! I think that method would be very likely to produce a theme that is very different from the winner to cover as many bases as possible, and pretty directly tackles the problem of giving an agreeable option to those who dislike the first theme.

I have a theory about where the voting blocs lie that might be helpful for the solution to this problem. From reading the comments in this thread and elsewhere, it seems there are two major issues that most participants have a strong opinion on:

- Mechanical themes (e.g. "Enemies as Weapons", "10 Seconds") vs. Stylistic themes (e.g. "Alone", "You Are The Villain")
- Specific themes (e.g. "Enemies as Weapons", "You Are The Villain") vs. Vague themes (e.g. "10 Seconds", "Alone"

See what I did there? Every theme falls somewhere on this spectrum- think of it kind of like a D&D alignment! "Entire Game On One Screen" is very much mechanical-specific, "☃" is stylistic-specific, "Evolution" is neutral-vague (it has some mechanical and some stylistic possibilities), and so on.

I hypothesize that most jammers have an alignment here, too. I tend to favor mechanical-vague themes. If you read this thread, you can identify some other jammers' alignments- for example, on the first/oldest page, you'll find Gaael in the mechanical-specific camp, Eniko in the stylistic-vague camp, and so on. Of course, like all spectrums, neither every game nor every jammer can be completely pigeonholed into these boxes. Some people will be neutral on these issues, or find one more important than the other (for example, I downvote specific themes more than I do stylistic themes). However, I think these two issues are the biggest general trends you'll find out there.

- not welcoming
- two schools of thought
- solution: two themes